Java:
Its core principle is “Write Once, Run Anywhere.”
Java is an object-oriented programming language. While an object-oriented programming language is about objects that contain both data and methods
Class and objects:
* A class (logical constructor)is a group of properties (name, color, shape, etc.)and functions. It is a blueprint used to create objects that share common properties and behavior.
* An object (physical reality)is an instance (physical entity)of a class created to access its data and operations. Each object holds its own state. It represents a specific entity created from the class template(group of objects).
* Objects are stored in heap memory, and reference variables are stored in stack memory.
State: Values stored in fields(values from its datatype).
Behavior: Actions defined through methods(where the value is stored).
Identity: Distinguishes one object from another

(Ex: Car is classed object is nano, surimi,ect,, So class is temple from which  objectis created and object is an instance (physical entity(physical appraise))of class when ever we are creating the individual objects they inherit all the variables and methods from a class.everything in java is associated with class and object along with attributes and methods.)

Ex:
Public class Main{
Public static void main(String []args)
{                                                                 class creating
Int a=90;
Int b=87;
}
String kittuObj= new String();                                     object creating
}

The development environment of Java consists of three main components:
1. JVM (Java Virtual Machine): JVM is the engine that runs Java programs. It converts Java bytecode (compiled code) into machine code (understandable by the OS).
2. JRE (Java Runtime Environment): JRE = JVM + Libraries + Other components needed to run Java applications.
3. JDK (Java Development Kit): JDK = JRE + Development Tools. It is required for developing Java applications.
Data Types in Java:
In Java, data types specify the type of values a variable can hold. They define the size, range and nature of data stored in memory. Java has two main categories of data types:
1. Primitive: byte, short, int, long, float, double, char, boolean
2. Non-Primitive: String, Arrays, Classes, Interfaces, Objects
Operators in Java:
Operators are symbols that perform specific operations on one or more operands (variables or values). They are used to perform calculations, comparisons, logical operations and manipulate data.
ex:+,=,-,/,>,<,||,&,%
----------------------
Java notes:

A class is a template for an object, and an object is an instance of a class.
A class creates a new data type that can be used to create objects.

When you declare an object of a class, you are creating an instance of that class.
Thus, a class is a logical construct. An object has physical reality. (That is, an object occupies space in memory.)

Objects are characterized by three essential properties: state, identity, and behavior.
The state of an object is a value from its data type. The identity of an object distinguishes one object from another.
It is useful to think of an object’s identity as the place where its value is stored in memory.
The behavior of an object is the effect of data-type operations.

The dot operator links the name of the object with the name of an instance variable.
Although commonly referred to as the dot operator, the formal specification for Java categorizes the . as a separator.
The 'new' keyword dynamically allocates(that is, allocates at run time)memory for an object & returns a reference to it.
This reference is, more or less, the address in memory of the object allocated by new.
This reference is then stored in the variable.
Thus, in Java, all class objects must be dynamically allocated.

Box mybox; // declare reference to object
     mybox = new Box(); // allocate a Box object
The first line declares mybox as a reference to an object of type Box. At this point, mybox does not yet refer to an
actual object. The next line allocates an object and assigns a reference to it to mybox. After the second line executes,
you can use mybox as if it were a Box object. But in reality, mybox simply holds, in essence, the memory address of the
actual Box object.
The key to Java’s safety is that you cannot manipulate references as you can actual pointers.
Thus, you cannot cause an object reference to point to an arbitrary memory location or manipulate it like an integer.

A Closer Look at new:
classname class-var = new classname ( );
Here, class-var is a variable of the class type being created. The classname is the name of the class that is being
instantiated. The class name followed by parentheses specifies the constructor for the class. A constructor defines
what occurs when an object of a class is created.

You might be wondering why you do not need to use new for such things as integers or characters.
The answer is that Java’s primitive types are not implemented as objects.
Rather, they are implemented as “normal” variables.
This is done in the interest of efficiency.

It is important to understand that new allocates memory for an object during run time.

Box b1 = new Box();
Box b2 = b1;
b1 and b2 will both refer to the same object. The assignment of b1 to b2 did not allocate any memory or copy any part
of the original object. It simply makes b2 refer to the same object as does b1. Thus, any changes made to the object
through b2 will affect the object to which b1 is referring, since they are the same object.
When you assign one object reference variable to another object reference variable, you are not creating a copy of the
object, you are only making a copy of the reference.

int square(int i){
    return i * i;
}
A parameter is a variable defined by a method that receives a value when the method is called. For example,
in square( int i), i is a parameter. An argument is a value that is passed to a method when it is invoked.
For example, square(100) passes 100 as an argument. Inside square( ), the parameter i receives that value.

NOTE:
Bus bus = new Bus();
lhs(reference i.e. bus) is looked by compiler & rhs (object i.e. new Bus()) is looked by jvm
